How to Care for Baby Mice.

Whether your adult mice had babies or you stumbled across abandoned baby mice, caring for these small, fragile infants can be a difficult task. Baby mice need to receive proper care within a few hours of being born in order to survive, so take immediate action if you find orphaned mice.

Helping the Mother Care for Her Babies

Watch the mother closely for signs of aggression or carelessness.

If the babies you are caring for have a mother, she will likely keep them alive. However, female mice are often careless towards their young, may abandon a litter, and may even eat some of their offspring.
If the mother stops feeding her young, or if she eats any babies, place her in a separate cage  If the mother is aggressive or does not care for the infants, you will need to feed and care for them yourself.

Find a foster mother if the mice are orphans.

If you know where to find another nursing female, she may accept the orphaned baby mice as her own. This is the best option, both psychologically and physically, for the babies but it is not always possible, especially if they are over 1.5 weeks old.
Quickly find a nursing mother from a pet store or breeder.  Rub the foster babies with bedding from the new mother’s cage to let them absorb her smells.  Place the babies in the mother’s tank.  Keep an eye out for signs of aggression, excessive squeaking, or abandonment.

Watch the babies for signs of diarrhea and dehydration.

Even if a biological or surrogate mother is taking care of the newborn mice, diarrhea and dehydration are common problems you may encounter when raising newborn mice. Dehydration occurs alongside diarrhea and can kill the babies if not treated.
A swollen tummy, lethargy, and yellowish discharge from the anus are signs of diarrhea.  Replace the mother’s milk or formula with an electrolyte solution for human infants.  Take the babies to a vet to ensure they are healthy.

Feeding Baby Mice

Prepare formula to feed the mice.

Your local pet store will carry many different formula options, such as Kitten Milk Replacer or Esbilac, that can be used to feed baby mice. Human formulas Enfamil  and Soyalac can also be used. Whole, raw goats milk will nourish the babies as well.
Slightly warm the formula or milk before feeding; do not use hot or cold formula.  Powered formulas will need to be mixed with water per the directions on the container.

Use a small syringe, small nursing bottle, or absorbent string for feeding.

You can also use an eyedropper. If you are using a syringe or bottle, suck liquid up into the container to prepare for feeding. If you are using string, simply dip it into the formula until it is dripping.

Place small drops of food into the mouth.

Take care to not squeeze the syringe or bottle with much force. If you see liquid bubbling from their noses, stop feeding immediately. When the mice have round, full tummies, they do not need any more food.

Feed the mice frequently.

Mice ages 0-1 week need feedings 6-8 times a day; mice 1-2 weeks need feedings 5-6 times a day; mice 2-3 weeks need feedings 4 times a day; and mice 4 weeks old only need feedings 3 times a day. Space each feeding a couple of hours apart. You will also have to feed the mice during the night.

Stimulate the babies after feeding so they use the bathroom.

 Use a cotton ball or your finger, and gently brush over their private areas. A small amount of liquid will come out, but if the baby is dehydrated, nothing may come out. Rub until there is no more liquid.

Wean the babies after three to four weeks.

 For the first several days of weaning, provide a small amount of moistened rodent pellets for the weaning mice; drizzle water over the pellets to prepare them, then place them in an easily accessible area.
Soon, the mice will be nibbling at the soaked crumbles.  When the mice appear to be getting stronger, try feeding them regular rodent pellets.

Provide healthy pellets and water once the babies are weaned.

Pet supply stores have rodent chow available, whether it comes in blocks or pellets. Choose a formula that is 16% protein, 18% fiber, and less than 4% fat to raise healthy mice.
You no longer have to wet the pellets.  You can provide apples, bananas, broccoli, and other snacks, but remember that mice have tiny stomachs and should not overeat.  Mice usually drink 3-7 ml of water per day. Hang a small animal water bottle in the cage, and keep it filled.  Before, the mice were getting water from their food, but now they eat dry food, and the water bottle is necessary.

Providing a Suitable Living Environment

Provide a cage with at least 1 cubic foot of space per mouse.

 This amount of space is necessary even if the babies are not fully grown. Your local pet store will have many cages to choose from, but be sure to buy one big enough.

Choose a proper cage.

Mouse cages should not provide spaces where the mice can escape and should have a solid floor . Plastic cages will often become damaged after cleaning, so opt instead for metal and glass cages or aquariums that can withstand thorough cleanings.
Mice are very good at chewing, so choose a cage without protruding parts and wires the mice can chew on.  Provide hiding spots for the mice, such as small boxes or cardboard tubes.  Using a cardboard box for the babies is only a temporary option, as mice will quickly learn to chew through the box and escape.

Provide clean bedding in the cage.

Wood shavings or shredded, recycled paper products will suffice. Avoid cedar and pine shavings. Clean the bedding as soon as it is soiled, which can be as often as twice a day, and disinfect the entire cage every three to four weeks.

Keep the cage between 75°F  and 90°F .

This will keep the babies warm and comfortable. Use your at-home heater and air conditioner to monitor the temperature.

How to Treat Chronic Vomiting in Cats.

The term "chronic" implies a longstanding condition, so chronic vomiting refers to sickness that has been going on for more than two or three weeks. The vomiting can be intermittent, meaning that it occurs every two or three days, or it can be constant, which means that it happens after every meal. The way that you treat your cat will depend on her overall health.

Treating a Cat Who is Otherwise Healthy

Determine if your cat is healthy aside from her chronic vomiting.

If your cat is healthy despite vomiting often, it means that there is most likely no underlying medical cause that needs to be treated. Instead, aspects of your cat’s lifestyle might need to be changed. Signs that this may be the case include:
Your cat is not losing weight.  Your cat acts like she normally does, and seems generally healthy.  Your cat only vomits once every two to three days.  Keep in mind that if your cat’s health gets worse, the vomiting gets more frequent, or your cat becomes lethargic or loses weight, you should seek the help of a veterinarian.

Adjust your cat’s food.

If the vomiting coincided with a change of diet, put your cat back onto a type of food that she was fine with before the chronic vomiting began. Some cats can have food intolerance, or food allergy, and it is possible that the new food contains a protein your cat is allergic to.
When a cat eats a protein that she is sensitive to, the protein molecule bridges a receptor in the bowel wall, which triggers an inflammatory reaction. It is this inflammation that causes the vomiting. When the food that is causing the allergy is taken away, the inflammation should settle in one to two days.

Switch your cat to a bland diet to help settle her stomach.

A cat with chronic vomiting that is fed a rich diet, such as a premium supermarket food, may be sensitive to the humectants and additives, or indeed the rich nature of the food itself. Try changing your cat’s diet to a bland, white meat diet such as chicken breast, turkey, rabbit, cod, or coley.
Feed your cat 100% meat, rather than a meat-flavored food. An average-sized cat needs roughly 250 kcal a day; this is equivalent to feeding your cat around 250 grams of chicken breast a day.  An alternative to meat is to feed your cat one of the many prescription diets that are designed to speed up the healing of the bowel. Diets like Hills ID or Purina HA are ideal for a cat recovering from sickness.

Give your cat Famotidine.

Famotidine is commonly sold as Pepcid AC. If your cat’s mucosal lining in her stomach is damaged, then giving her medications to repair the lining can help to stop the vomiting. When the lining is damaged, the stomach acid can eat away at the exposed stomach wall. Antacid medications such as famotidine decrease stomach acid production and give the lining a chance to repair itself while the inflammation subsides.
This drug should be used with caution in cats with heart disease because it can slow the heart rate. However this is usually only a problem when the medication is given intravenously.  The prescribed dose is generally 0.5 mg/kg once a day by mouth. A 5 kg cat thus requires 2.5 mg; the lowest tablet size is 10 mg, which equates to a quarter of a tablet, once a day.

Talk to your vet about giving your cat non-prescription gastroprotectants.

Kaolin and Pectin  are both gastroprotectants that can help to protect the lining of your cat’s bowels. The kaolin and pectin absorb toxins produced in the gut, and also line the gut wall to provide a protective barrier.
However, this medication is not effective in all cats. Consider calling your vet before giving this medication to your cat.

Identifying the Underlying Cause and Treating It

Bring your cat to the vet.

If your cat is unwell and vomiting, then seek veterinary advice. Vomiting is usually a symptom of a problem rather than a diagnosis in itself. Identifying the cause of the vomiting and treating the underlying problem will help to stop the sickness.
The following steps cover common underlying causes that may cause your cat to develop chronic vomiting.

Determine whether the vomit is a reaction to a drug.

If the mucosal barrier lining the stomach is damaged, digestive acids come into contact with the stomach wall and cause an erosion, or ulcer. Certain medications such as steroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs  can cause side effects which include gastric ulceration that leads to vomiting.
Diagnosis: An ulcer may be suspected if the cat has a recent history of taking NSAIDs or other medications; especially if they were given on an empty stomach by accident . Imaging such as ultrasound or endoscopy  may be required to identify the lesion.  Treatment: Treatment involves stopping the medication that caused the initial problem, and using gastroprotectants and antacid drugs to help your cat’s stomach to heal.

Look for signs of a liver infection.

Liver infection  is commonly associated with vomiting. This is a self-seeded infection where bacteria from the bowel reflux up the bile duct and create an infection in the liver. Cats with cholangiohepatitis vomit, have poor appetites, and may be jaundiced.
Diagnosis: Your veterinarian will run blood tests to look for raised liver enzymes, and a high white cell count. He or she will also scan the liver using an ultrasound, in order to make a diagnosis.  Treatment: The majority of cats respond well to a therapy of antibiotics, anti-sickness injections, and intravenous fluids if the cat is dehydrated.

Treat kidney disease.

A diseased kidney is not efficient at filtering the natural waste products of the digestive process. Instead, these toxins gradually build up in the blood where they cause inflammation and ulceration of the stomach lining, and sometimes the gums.
Diagnosis: Kidney disease is usually diagnosed with a blood screen, which measures the levels of toxic metabolites such as urea and creatinine, and the build-up of minerals such a phosphate.  Treatment: Treatment includes putting your cat on a prescription food that is low in toxic metabolites. Another treatment is angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors  such as benazepril. ACEI work by inhibiting an enzyme cascade that causes blood vessel contraction. This leads to a dilation of the blood vessels supplying the kidney, which mean blood supply to the kidney is increased.

Lower your cat’s phosphate levels.

Phosphate, which is associated with kidney disease, is recognized as a cause of nausea in cats. However, cats can also have an increased phosphate level without having kidney disease if the phosphate levels are lowered early on.
Diagnosis: Like with kidney disease, vets can use a blood screen to look for a build-up of phosphate.  Treatment: The use of phosphate binders such a Renalzin, which is added to food and binds to the phosphate content, means less phosphate gets into the bloodstream. Renalzin comes in a pump; a typical dose in one or two pumps, twice a day with food.

Work with your vet to treat your cat for pancreatitis.

Pancreatitis is a painful condition in which digestive juices leak into the tissue of the pancreas. This causes a lot of local inflammation, pain, and irritation, which can lead to vomiting.
Treatment through diet: Mild cases of pancreatitis can be managed with a bland diet, which requires less digestive juices to process than fatty diets.  Treatment through medication: Very sick cats need hospitalization for supportive care with intravenous fluids, antiemetics, and pain relief. The antiemetic most commonly used is maropitant.

Understand that overactive thyroid glands can lead to vomiting.

The thyroid produces thyroxine, which is a hormone that governs metabolic rate. Too much thyroxine acts like a stimulant, a bit like being permanently high on caffeine. It overstimulates the gut and can cause sickness and diarrhea.
Diagnosis: Your veterinarian will diagnose the condition by feeling for enlarged thyroid glands in the neck and running blood tests to check the levels of thyroid hormones in your cat’s bloodstream.  Treatment: Treatment for hyperthyroidism includes giving your cat a medication called Thiamazole  that regulates the production of thyroid hormones.

Help your cat get rid of Helicobacteria.

This is a spiral shaped bacterium which burrows into the stomach lining, causes inflammation, and can make your cat vomit.
Treatment: Treatment helicobacteria with a combination of antibiotics. This combination includes either doxycycline with metronidazole, or amoxicillin with metronidazole. You will most likely have to give your cat these antibiotics for 10 to 21 days.

Understand that a foreign body in your cat’s stomach can make your cat sick.

A hairball or a small toy can sit in your cat’s stomach and rattle around, much like a lone sock inside a tumble dryer. The foreign body either blocks the exit to the stomach, or else it irritates the stomach lining, and makes the cat sick.
Diagnosis: Your vet will diagnose the foreign body through x-rays or ultrasounds after a thoroughly physical examination.  Treatment: Removing foreign bodies generally involves surgery. A laparotomy is generally used to gain access to the stomach.

How to Share Books on Kindle.

Sharing is a convenient way to gain access to more books read. Now you can share books on your Kindle to anyone you’d like. All you need is someone’s email address to provide access to an interesting, new book to read. The person you share with doesn’t even have to have a Kindle to enjoy the content because Kindle has a free reading app they can download. You can also create a Family Library to share content with your family and build a large library of books.

Lending a Book

Log in to Amazon.

com. Visit www.amazon.com/mycd to find the "Manage Your Content and Devices" page. Click on the "Content" tab. This should pull up the books you have downloaded on your Kindle.

Select a Book.

Click the "Select" box next to the book you want to lend to a friend, then click on the "Actions" box to pull up a small menu of choices. Select "Loan this title".
If "Loan this title" is not an option when you pull up the actions menu, it means this book can’t be loaned.

Enter your friend’s email address.

When you click on "Loan this title" it brings up a page where you can enter the information of the friend you want to lend the book to. Enter the email address, the recipient’s name, and an optional message in the spaces provided, and then click the "Send" button.

Tell your friend to look for the email.

The recipient will have seven days to accept the loaned book and fourteen days from accepting to keep it. Once the fourteen days are done, the book will be returned to your library.
You won’t be able to access the book on any device during the loan period.

Setting Up a Family Library

Create an Amazon Household.

You must join an Amazon Household to be able to set up a Family Library. An Amazon Household can include up to two adults with their own individual Amazon accounts and up to four children with child profiles created as a part of an adult’s account.
Go to "Manage Accounts and Devices" at www.amazon.com/mycd.  Click on the "Settings" tab.  Select "Invite Adult" under the "Households and Family Library" tab.  Have the second adult sign into their amazon account.  Once the second adult has signed in, select "Yes" to share payment methods, Amazon content and services, and management of child profiles.  Click "Create Household"  When prompted to set your content sharing settings through Family Library, click yes.

Visit the "Manage Accounts and Devices" page.

Click on the "Your Content" tab.

Select the content you want to share.

Click the "Select" box next to the content you want to share. Click on "Add to Library".
If you don’t see "Add to Library" select the "Show Family Library" tab.

Pick the profile to add the content to.

Choose the adult profile or a child’s Free Time profile to add the content to, and click "OK".

How to Grow Lotus Flower.

Lotus flowers are beautiful aquatic plants that represent beauty and purity. They are available in a range of sizes and colors, the most common colors being red, pink, yellow, and white. The plants can be grown from seeds or tubers, but seeds will not produce a flower the first year while they develop into tubers.

Growing from Seed

Scar the seeds.

File the pointed tip of the seed down to one layer using a standard metal file. If you do not scar the seed, it will not grow and may rot.

Place the seeds into a glass of warm water.

The water should not be chlorinated and must be changed every day until the lotus seeds sprout. After the first day of soaking, the seeds should swell to nearly twice their original size.
Seeds that float are almost always infertile. File any floating seeds down until you see a hint of the white meat on the inside of the seed. If these seeds do not swell like the others, discard them to avoid letting them cloud up the water.

Continue changing the water daily even after the seeds sprout.

You must be more delicate than before to avoid disturbing the growth, however. Growth should start after four or five days of soaking, but you will need to wait a few more days until the seedling is at least 6 in.  long before transferring.

Pick the right pot.

A 3 to 5 gallon  container should provide a young lotus plant with enough room to grow. A black plastic bucket works best because of its ability to retain heat and warm the seedlings. You also need to choose a bucket that does not have any drainage holes. The plant can actually gravitate toward the drainage holes and begin growing outside of them, causing the plant to under-perform.

Anchor the seeds.

Lotus seeds without an anchor may find their way out of the soil and end up floating on the surface of the water. Gently wrap a small amount of modeling clay around each seed, but do not cover the sprout.

Fill your pot with dense soil.

The ideal soil is about two parts clay and one part river sand. Fill the pot with about 6 in.  of this potting medium.

Gently press the seeds into the top of the soil.

The seeds should rest near the top of the soil, but you should brush a light layer of soil over the seeds after you press them in.

Lower the pot into shallow water.

The water should be a maximum of 18 in.  deep and at a temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit .

Growing from Tuber


Float the tuber in a large bowl.

Fill the bowl with warm water until it is nearly full and rest the tuber on the surface of the water. The tuber should float. Place the bowl near a warm window and change the water every three to seven days.
Do not expose the tuber to direct sunlight or freezing temperatures.  Plant the lotus within a few weeks after the tuber sprouts.

Select the right container.

The right size container will depend on the type of lotus you chose. Bowl lotuses are very small and can fit comfortably inside a 2-gallon  container, but a large lotus may need a 50-gallon  container.
Make sure that your container does not have holes. Your lotus may begin growing out of the holes, creating a mess and causing it to perform poorly.

Fill your container with dirt.

The best dirt is about 60 percent clay and 40 percent river sand, but most dense soils will work sufficiently well. Leave about 1 to 4 in.  of empty space in between the top of the soil and the rim of the pot.

Place the pot in a shallow pond or tank.

For now, the surface level of the water should only be about as high as the pot, if not a little higher.

Set the tuber on top of the soil.

Place it in a horizontal position with the back part next to the wall of the container and the growing point toward the center. The growing points should stick straight up.
Gently press the tuber into the soil just enough to anchor it, but do not bury it too deep.  The surface of the water should only be slightly higher than the top of the growing tip.

After a few days, place the pot into your pond.

Your plant will be ready for deeper water once the growing tips show leaves. Smaller types of lotus only need 1 to 6 in.  of water covering the top of the soil, but larger varieties may need up to 3 feet .  of water.

Place a rock on top of the tuber to weigh it down.

If you do not weigh the tuber down, it will float to the surface of the water.

Daily Care


Maintain a water temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit .

The plant only grows at temperatures that high or higher.

Give your lotus as much sun as possible.

Lotus plants thrive in full sun, but if your pond is not located in full sun, you should at least give the plant as much sunlight as possible by removing any foliage from other plants that may block out the sun.
After temperatures rise about 95 degrees Fahrenheit , you should consider adding some shade to prevent the delicate leaves from burning.

Prune your lotus as necessary.

Snip away yellow leaves, but only cut the stems off above the surface of the water.

Fertilize your lotus using pond tabs.

Pond tablets are specially made for use with aquatic plants. Small varieties only need about 2 tablets, but large varieties may need 4 tablets.
If growing your lotus from seed, do not fertilize during the first year of growth.  Begin fertilizing after a lotus tuber sprouts six leaves.  Add fertilizer every three to four weeks.  Stop fertilizing in the middle of July. If you do not stop, the plant will not be able to prepare for dormancy.

Watch for pests.

Aphids and caterpillars are known to be attracted to lotus leaves, so you may need to apply a small amount of powdered pesticide to the leaves in order to kill these pests. Do not apply liquid pesticides, however, since liquid pesticides are more likely to burn the leaves.

Before the first frost, reposition your lotus.

Move the pot into the deepest part of the bond to protect the top of the tuber from ice that develops on the surface of the water. You can also remove the pot and sit it in a garage or basement until the weather warms up again.  .

Repot the tuber every year.

Only repot in the early spring, when new growth has just begun developing. Use a soil made of clay and river sand, and transfer it to a container that is the same size as its original container, planting it at the same depth.

How to Show Someone You Love Them.

When you love someone, you want them to know it. But sometimes it's not that easy to say those three little words. Sometimes it's easier to show people how you feel. When you say, 'I love you', many people take it as a cliché, but if you really want to show that you'll sacrifice life and limb for them, read on!

Through Gifts

Send them flowers.

It may seem cliché or overdone, but nothing says "I love you" like a beautiful bunch of flowers, especially if they're her  favorite. Make sure they are presented nicely. Attach a romantic note or send them anonymously. Present them in person or have them delivered to your loved one's home or office building. Flowers are a classic romantic gift that will never go out of fashion.
Try to make sure that you send flowers that your partner likes. Sure, it's the thought that counts, but you'll get extra points for choosing the right flowers. If you don't know their favorite varieties and want to go for something classic instead, you really can't go wrong with red roses.

Make them a mix CD.

Make your loved one a mix CD of the songs that remind you of them or your relationship, or even songs you just think they would like. Maybe ask them innocently to find their taste. A mix CD is a great gift because it shows you put time and consideration into finding music they would like. If you get it right and they love the tracks, it shows that you listen to them and know them on an intimate level.

Give them something from nature.

Pick somewhere in nature that's special to you - your childhood home or your favorite place to relax and think. Then collect a token from that place and give it to your loved one. Give them a seashell, a pretty rock, a bird feather or whatever small, cute thing you can find. Tell them that you saw it and instantly thought of them. Tell them that it's a piece of you that you would like them to have and keep safe. They will feel special and closer to you as a result.

Buy or make coupons for romantic activities.

Buy or make a coupon book that you can give to your loved one, with coupons they can cash in for romantic activities at any time. These are available to buy online or in certain gift stores, but it's better if you make your own. That way you can personalize it and get more creative with your couponing. Wink, wink.
Think of things like a coupon for a romantic dinner, a coupon for one hundred kisses, or a coupon for a sensual massage.  Alternatively, they could be coupons for everyday activities such as a passes on doing the dishes or walking the dog, even if it's their turn. This isn't as romantic, but your partner will surely appreciate them nonetheless.

Frame a picture of the two of you.

Frame a picture of you and your loved one together. Pick a photograph where the two of you look happy and and are clearly enjoying each other's company. Give it to your loved one and tell them why you chose that particular picture and what memories it brings back. Their heart might just melt a little.
Before framing, date the picture and perhaps write a little note on the back. Then choose a pretty frame, and wrap it in a box or just tie a ribbon around it.  Make sure it's a photo of themselves that they like. They won't want to display it if they have something in their teeth or their eyes are half closed. Present it in a pretty frame.

Bring them balloons.

If you're looking for something cute and fun to give your loved one, consider a bunch of balloons. Balloons are over-the-top and attention grabbing, so if you're looking to make a big statement, this is it. Just watch their face when they see you coming, it'll be priceless.
Choose a bunch with your partner's favorite colors and tie with vivid ribbons. The louder the better.  Make sure to get helium balloons, they look happier than the non-floating type.

Get them tickets to something they like.

Surprise your loved one by getting them tickets to see something they like, whether it's tickets to see their favorite band or tickets to a movie they've been wanting to see, or tickets to a sports event. This gift shows that you listen to your partner, that you support their interests and that you would do anything to make them happy.
You'll need to be selfless with this one - even if it's something that bores you to tears, like ballet or monster trucks. The point is that it's something they like.  Make sure their schedule is free before you buy the tickets. Even if they appreciate the thought, it'll be disappointing if they're not able to make it.

Through Your Behavior

Make small gestures.

Sometimes love isn't about making grand statements or over-the-top gestures, it's about the little, everyday things that define a relationship. Try doing things like opening a door for your loved one, bringing them their morning cup of coffee in bed or sending a quick text to let them know you're thinking about them throughout the day.

Be affectionate.

A soft kiss. A warm hug. Even a tender squeeze of the hand. These little displays of affection are the perfect way to communicate your love without saying a word.

Share with them.

There's no room for selfishness when it comes to love. If you really care about someone, you'll share your thoughts, your blanket and even your last slice of pizza with them.

Trust them.

You've heard it before, but there can be no love without trust. You need to trust your partner to make the right decisions, even when you're not around. It doesn't matter if it's trusting them when they say that nothing happened with their ex, or trusting them not to burn the dinner you left on the stove, you need to take them at their word.

Surprise them.

No matter how much you love someone, relationships can become boring if you allow yourselves to fall into a routine. Rekindle the spark by doing something spontaneous. Surprise your loved one by sending them flowers, calling them unexpectedly or planning a romantic getaway for the two of you.

Cook for them.

Whether it's a bang-up bacon and egg breakfast or a gourmet, ethnic-themed feast, show your love by feeding your special someone something delicious. The time and effort you put into it will be obvious to your loved one, while eating together will allow you to spend some quality time with each other. They say the way to a man's heart is through his stomach - but a tasty meal works equally well for either gender.

Be honest.

As mentioned already, trust is the key to a healthy relationship, and there can be no trust without honesty. You should tell your partner the truth about everything - whether you ate the last cookie or left the front door unlocked.
There are, however, a number of notable exceptions to this rule. Providing answers to the questions "does this make me look fat?" and "what do you think of my parents?" being two such exceptions.

Encourage them to pursue their dreams.

If you truly love someone, you'll want them to be the best that they can be and to pursue their dreams no matter the consequences. Don't hold them back for your own selfish reasons - they'll only end up resenting you for it. If they want to learn the violin, put up with their ear-splitting practice sessions  If they want to study or work abroad, figure out a way to make the relationship work. They say love is about compromise, but nobody should have to sacrifice their dreams.

Be there for them.

To really show someone you love them, be there for them through thick and thin. Share their joy and their pain. Celebrate with them when they get a promotion at work or help them through the death of a beloved family member. Being there for someone can be as simple as sharing a drink together at the end of the week, or as important as giving them a shoulder to cry on when they're feeling low.

Through Words

Send a letter.

If you can't say the words out loud, try putting your feelings in a letter. Some people find that they can express themselves much better in writing than they can in person. Pour your heart into a letter, mail it and have them read it when you're not around.
Include details like why you were attracted to them in the first place, how you feel when you're around them, and how you envision your future together.  An email would also work, but there's something old-fashioned and romantic about a letter.

Thank them.

Showing your loved one a little appreciation now and then can go a long way. A smile and a quick "thank you" will do for the little things, but every so often you should sit them down, look them in the eye and tell them "I really appreciate everything you do for me, it means a lot." Thanking your loved one will make them feel needed and appreciated, which is important for any relationship.

Tell them they're beautiful/handsome.

Everyone likes to hear that the person they're with finds them attractive. Don't just assume they know how handsome or beautiful you think they are - tell them!
Try an over-the-top compliment like "You're the most gorgeous man on the planet." It will make them feel special and let them know that you only have eyes for them.  Or tell them something simple and sincere like "I can spot your smile from across the room" or "your eyes are the most beautiful shade of blue, I could stare at them all day."

Ask them how they are - and listen to the answer.

This sounds simple, but its importance cannot be understated. In order to feel loved, a person needs to feel listened to and understood. It's easy to ask a person how they are out of habit, and not really listen to the answer. You should make a point of sitting down with your loved one and asking them to tell you how they're doing - honestly and sincerely. If they're perfectly happy - great, let them know that you are too. If they're not doing so well, ask what you can do to help or just lend them a sympathetic ear.

Ask for their advice.

Asking your loved one for advice shows that you care about and respect their opinion. It shows that you value their input and that you understand the importance of making decisions together, especially if a decision affects the two of you.
If they have more knowledge on a certain topic, asking for their advice will flatter their ego, while also being beneficial to you, for example, when buying a car or new laptop.  Ask for their advice on something relatively unimportant like whether you should buy the new Playstation or Xbox. They may not care all that much, but they'll appreciate you asking.  For more serious matters, such as medical procedures or living arrangements, asking for your partners input is definitely recommended. If you fail to let them in on big decisions such as these, they may feel left out or unappreciated.

Say you're sorry.

Know when you're wrong and admit it. Whether you broke their favorite mug or made an underhand comment during an argument, a genuine, unconditional apology can go a long way to resolving the situation and letting your partner know you care.
Refusing to say you're sorry will only cause tension and resentment. Even if you think you did nothing wrong, swallow your pride and say the words. Your relationship is worth it.

Write a romantic song or poem.

What could be more romantic than sharing your feelings through a song or poem? . Through the words of a song or poem you can express all the sweet sentiments and warm, fuzzy feelings that you can't say to their face. Send your song recording or poem anonymously by mail for added romance factor.
If you're not so creative, find some romantic words written by someone else and send your loved ones those instead. Look for romantic poems or letters written by great writers, such as Shakespeare, Lord Byron or Emily Dickinson.  Alternatively, try dedicating a song to them. Whether it's before you sing on karaoke night or calling a request in to their favorite radio station, a song dedication is always romantic.

Tell them you love them.

This might sound a little crazy, but you could just say it out loud, those three little words: "I love you." Say it at the movies, say it in bed, say it while you're dancing, say it over dinner, say it on the phone. It doesn't matter where or when, as long as you mean it.
